Welcome back to the
Computer Forensics Path.
Today in Course 4, Module 2,
we're going to be talking
about how to make
a preservation request to an
Internet service provider,
and we're going to talk about
the rules governing
consent searches.
Preservation requests.
These are requests we would make
to an Internet service provider.
The first thing you
want to do is you
want to talk to the Internet
service provider in
advance and find out
what information they do
collect as part of
their regular business.
Because if you're looking for
something that they don't
collect as part of
their regular business,
you may be wasting
your time serving them
with legal process.
Most service providers
will talk to you.
It is good to find a point of
contact at these Internet
service providers so
that you can talk to somebody
on a regular basis so you're
talking to the same person.
You may make a
request for them to
preserve this
information for 90 days.
The law allows you 90 days,
but they will preserve
the information
before you serve them
with legal process to
collect the information.
If you go beyond that 90 days
you can ask for an extension.
They can only provide you
information that they
already have, in
their possession.
You can't request that they
preserve future information.
You must have a date range,
a time range, and you must
have an IP address
to go with that.
Because IP addresses are
usually assigned dynamically,
IP addresses will
change during time.
If I have an IP
address today at, say,
01:00 PM and you go six
months down the road and you
ask for information
regarding that IP address,
but you don't have
a date and time,
the IP address may now
belong to someone else,
and you'll be getting
the wrong information.
You have to make sure you
have a date and time range,
and an IP address.
You also will need
to provide some type
of account or ID number
when you ask for
this information.
If you're talking to Facebook,
you're want to have
their Facebook ID.
If you're talking to a
cell phone provider,
you're going to need to have
some type of phone number,
or other identifying information.
But you're going to need all that
to make up this
preservation request.
Consent searches.
You probably are going
to use a consent search,
if you don't have enough
probable cause for a warrant,
that maybe one of the reasons
you may ask for consent search,
if you're just trying to
eliminate somebody as a suspect.
If you're dealing with
a victim or a witness,
you may just ask for
consent to search
their electronic
devices rather than
go for legal process.
The one thing you want to
remember is you do want
to give them an advisement
of their rights,
prior to giving your consent,
and you do want to get
this consent in writing.
A verbal consent is
not a good idea.
You always want to get
your consent in writing,
have them sign a
written consent form.
Remember, consent can be
withdrawn at any time.
Then the person has to have
the ability to
withdraw a consent.
You can't just take their
devices back to your office,
and not answer your phone,
so that they can't
withdraw a consent.
They have to have the ability
to withdraw a consent.
If they do withdraw a consent,
and you haven't found anything,
you must return the property.
If they withdraw
a consent and you
have found evidence of a crime,
that evidence will be admissible,
you can hold on to
that device and apply
it for legal process,
a search warrant or a subpoena,
to continue searching the device.
You want to be in contact
with your prosecutor and advise
them of what's going on,
and follow their advice
in these situations.
In our next module,
we are going to talk about
search warrants and subpoenas,
and how you write them,
and what they must include.